- America's public enemy
number one
in the united states
is drug abuse.
- I've learned in a couple
of letters to the editor
that playboy is responsible
for everything,
from vietnam
to drug problems.
- Drugs were rampant
at hefner's mansion.
[tense music]
- who's gonna bring
these drugs to hef?
He didn't go anywhere,
and he wasn't gonna
go get them himself.
- Ms. Arnstein died
of a drug overdose,
but police officials
still aren't sure
if it was accidental.
- The feds suspected that both
bobbie arnstein and my sister,
adrienne--
she was a playboy bunny--
were involved in
trafficking drugs for playboy.
- The federal authorities
were trying
to get bobbie
to claim that
somehow hefner was involved
in that cocaine smuggling.
- Many thought that
she committed suicide
because she felt pressure
to turn against hefner.
- Why is that so many
powerful, influential men
have in their story
the tragic death of a woman
or, in hefner's case, women,
and we don't talk about it?
[dramatic music]
- my name is hugh hefner.
I'm editor-publisher
of "playboy" magazine.
- When hugh hefner
was just 27,
he fashioned himself
and playboy
as the face
of sexual liberation.
- Playboy is one
of the most famous brand names
in the world.
- I would like
to be remembered
as somebody who played
some positive part
in changing the social
sexual values of my time.
- I believe that hef pulled
one over on the whole world.
- The fantasy of playboy
that he created
did not allow
for the consent of the women.
- When it came
to hefner's buddies,
you had to keep
those secrets quiet.
- What have you got for free?
- [chuckles nervously]
- when you get someone
that powerful,
anything could happen.
Anything.
- The people
who were really there,
they're the ones
who know the real truth.
- I want to be a voice
for the women that suffered
the most at his hands.
♪ ♪
all right.
Down, bella. Down.
Hef and I, we were together
from August of '76 to '81.
When I first met hef,
I spent most of my time
with him
and his best friend, johnny,
out in the game house.
And their conversation
was about bobbie arnstein.
Before I met him,
bobbie arnstein was hef's
social secretary in chicago.
A very big part of his life.
She knew all his secrets.
I mean, they were very close.
And I never met her,
but I heard the stories.
The police,
they had got ahold of her,
and she was being forced
to testify
regarding drugs
at the mansion,
and rather than do this,
she killed herself.
And I'm going, "wow.
Wow, that poor girl."
but then there's joni,
hef's social secretary,
who knew her.
Joni was the one that
really got me questioning it
because she was really close
to bobbie.
She was as inside
as you could get.
Joni would say,
"she didn't kill herself."
and I'm thinking,
"well, what do you mean,
she didn't kill herself?"
I've wondered about
what really happened to bobbie
for years.
Why was hef never upset
when he talked about bobbie
even though they had been
very, very close?
Did bobbie run drugs for hef?
♪ ♪
- the bobbie arnstein case
still haunts me.
I was a detective in
the chicago police department.
We were responsible
for the northeast quadrant
of the city,
and playboy was
in the northeast quadrant
of the city.
- Law enforcement
was looking at playboy
because
they were the epitome
of the deterioration
of our culture.
That was how they looked at it.
And it was basically the start
of the real war on drugs,
they used to call it.
People thought
this was the den of evil,
and they just thought
playboy needed
to be shut down
and squashed.
- So in the early '70s,
cocaine really exploded
in the city of chicago.
It was everywhere.
I heard the rumors that you
could get whatever you wanted
in the mansion.
If you wanted marijuana,
you could get it.
If you wanted cocaine,
So somebody had
to bring it in there.
And was it bobbie?
I don't know.
The dea thought it was her.
She was a target because
of her association
with playboy and hefner.
♪ ♪
they searched her, and they
found cocaine in her purse.
They brought her
into federal court.
Everybody thought,
ooh, wow.
Dea's really
got a whopper here.
I mean, they got the--
hugh hefner's right-hand gal.
- The federal authorities
were trying
to get bobbie
to claim that
somehow hefner was involved
in that cocaine smuggling,
but I can tell you,
illegal drugs were not
the major scene there.
Bobbie was hef's
closest executive assistant.
I considered her
my closest friend in the world.
♪ ♪
I've spent the majority
of my adult life
working to legalize
the responsible use
of marijuana by adults.
This was a "playboy" interview
they did of me in 1977.
♪ ♪
if we could get over
the symbolism,
I think everybody agrees
it doesn't really make sense
to send a marijuana smoker
to jail.
I met bobbie arnstein
the very first time
I went to chicago
to meet
with the playboy foundation
at the playboy mansion.
When you were
at the mansion,
it was like you were at some
sort of a hollywood party.
And bobbie arnstein
made it happen.
She made sure anybody who
needed whatever would have it.
And we hit it off and became
very close friends for--
well, for the rest of her life.
Whenever I would go out
to see hefner,
I would say with bobbie in
her apartment in the mansion,
and she would say, "okay, let's
go down to the pinball room."
and hef would join us,
and we'd spend several hours
smoking weed
and playing pinball.
And I thought she was the most
sophisticated and sexy woman
I had ever met in my life.
♪ ♪
- I was a bunny girl,
a playmate of the year, 1973.
When I became
miss January 1972,
that was the first time
I met bobbie,
and we sort of clicked!
She was not a standard beauty,
but stylish.
When she was getting ready
to go for a date,
she would say,
"mm, can I borrow your legs
tonight, marilyn?"
and we'd laugh.
I think bobbie had
a very special gift
in the sense that
she balanced everything.
And I didn't realize
all the responsibility
that she had to bear.
♪ ♪
she knew about
all his girlfriends.
She was just
naturally discreet
and knew
how to smooth things over.
And when I was with her
in her apartment,
and hef would
occasionally turn up.
♪ ♪
and she immediately
switched on,
and he would invariably end up
laughing and feeling better,
and he would just leave.
- One of bobbie's jobs,
not the most important
but one
that I always appreciated,
was that hef insisted
that she keep a box full
of nice, hand-rolled joints
on his bedstand
in his private quarters.
I saw occasionally
amphetamines,
but I never saw cocaine
used in the mansion
other than when bobbie and I
would occasionally
snort a line of coke
from a half a gram she had.
But I will say this:
We were very careful
to keep it out of hef's view
or knowledge
or anybody else
in the mansion.
I was alerted that if hef
or any of his people
ever see or hear cocaine,
you'll never enter
this building again.
And I think
that was a real rule.
I don't think
it was just pr.
But the federal authorities,
they were fully convinced
that the playboy empire,
with all its hipness
and its relevance
and its modernity,
they must be snorting cocaine.
- They wanted hefner,
dea and fbi especially.
They thought, hefner's running
drugs, and he's the supplier,
that there's drugs
all over the place.
♪ ♪
- so they arrested
bobbie arnstein.
♪ ♪
- she was accused of conspiracy
to distribute cocaine.
♪ ♪
- when I was
a very young lawyer,
I was asked to work with
a more senior lawyer in my firm
representing bobbie arnstein.
And, I mean,
the government was zealous
in trying
to prosecute these cases.
They had wiretaps on bobbie's
phone in the playboy mansion.
They picked up
on these wiretaps
some occasional discussion
of drugs,
but not drug dealing
involving bobbie,
just, "can you get me
some x, y or z?"
- she had met a new man
that she was seeing,
and he was a drug dealer.
His whole life, essentially,
was dealing cocaine.
Bobbie arnstein was arrested
outside the playboy mansion
with a small amount of cocaine
in her purse.
♪ ♪
any state in the country
during those years,
if you were busted
with a half pound of cocaine,
you're gonna spend
10 to 20 years in prison,
and she realized
she was in a heap of trouble.
♪ ♪
- they brought her
into federal court.
They wanted her
to turn around and say,
"I bring the dope
to hugh hefner."
[tense music]
♪ ♪
- this is a commendation from
the state's attorney's office.
"this letter
is sent to you
to inform you
of the excellent work
"that investigator dave reuben
has provided.
"he's been assigned some very
difficult and sensitive cases,
such as the playboy case."
I haven't seen this
in...A long time.
♪ ♪
I was an investigator
for the cook county
state's attorney's office
in chicago in
the special prosecutions unit.
♪ ♪
hefner was on everybody's list
at that point
in the federal agencies.
The bobbie arnstein's case
was already being made,
and you had a conversation
with anybody
in law enforcement,
they just thought
playboy needed
to be shut down
and squashed.
I was told
that adrienne pollack
was a playboy bunny
in the playboy club
that died of a drug overdose
in 1973,
and basically, she was
running drugs on some level.
Our office decided,
"let's reopen
"the adrienne pollack case
and take a look at it
"because there may be more
involving hugh hefner, drugs,
other crimes potentially,
conspiracies."
this was the backdoor way for
the state's attorney's office
to get involved
in the playboy investigation.
♪ ♪
so I went out,
and I do remember the family.
They welcomed us and gave us
kind of the backstory
of adrienne pollack's
development
that led to her
going to work for playboy.
♪ ♪
- adrienne claudette
is her official name,
adrienne claudette-pollack.
However, growing up,
we called her addie.
My sister was a little bit
of a rebel and adventurous,
and she was somebody
who walks into the room
and just lights up.
I want to show you
some things
that I've collected
over the years.
All of these boxes
are her items.
So here are bunny ears
that my sister actually wore
working for playboy.
Different costumes,
different colors.
This was part of her
initial outfit that she had.
This was her initial shot
that was done in July of 1972.
♪ ♪
- addie was very daring,
funny, fearless.
♪ ♪
this is my wedding,
and this is my sister, addie,
in the blonde here on the end.
She was really pretty,
and, I mean,
she had a nice figure
and everything.
She was hired immediately.
♪ ♪
- she lived
in the playboy mansion
pretty much
from the get-go.
It was hard.
I think it was really tough.
She didn't talk much
about being a bunny.
She did have
some experiences.
Men would try
to pull off the tail
or be, you know,
aggressive.
- Bunnies come,
and bunnies go,
but there are always 100 girls
on the application list
waiting for a chance
to enter the playboy world.
♪ ♪
- I think there was,
like, an excitement
because there were
a lot of stars that came.
One morning, she had breakfast
with warren beatty.
But then she also,
after a while,
got tired
of living in a dorm
with other girls
who would take her things.
She wanted to be
her own separate individual,
♪ ♪
and in August of 1973,
she moved out
and got an apartment
a block and a half away
with her boyfriend.
♪ ♪
August 16th, 1973,
I was sitting on
the front porch of our house.
My sister pulls up
with her boyfriend,
and I was really surprised
to see them.
♪ ♪
my parents
didn't expect it either.
They were in their pajamas.
They came inside.
We sat at the kitchen table,
and we took pictures.
Then, she's like,
"well, I have to go."
that was the last time
I saw her.
It was her 23rd birthday.
♪ ♪
three weeks later,
I remember sitting outside
with a friend of mine.
We saw a police car,
and then, all of a sudden,
he pulled up to our house.
So I brought him inside,
and he said,
"I'm sorry to tell you,
but your daughter is dead."
♪ ♪
but he didn't have
any specifics.
It's like,
well, what happened?
[tense music]
♪ ♪
- I was 18,
and I cried so much
that my contacts
were just filmed up.
I just couldn't--
I could barely see.
It's like,
how could this be?
♪ ♪
I have an article of clothing
that she passed away in.
I just kept a piece of it.
They said that she died
of a accidental overdose
from quaaludes.
I had no idea she was doing
things like uppers or downers
or anything else.
I was surprised,
in a way,
but I also knew her behavior
had changed over the past year
since she was in "playboy."
there was more questions
than answers.
- It was absolutely possible
there were major drugs
in the mansion.
♪ ♪
there's a memo that's issued
April 1st, 1974,
from mary o'connor.
She was in charge
of the bunnies,
pretty much
the house mother.
And in that memo,
she says,
"make sure there's no illegal
drugs on the premises."
they had to anticipate
there was the possibility
of a search warrant.
So they were gonna make sure
if that occurred,
there were no drugs found.
It also implies that
that was a concern
because there were
illegal drugs.
♪ ♪
this is an internal report
from dea,
a report of investigation memo
about an interview
with allen crawford,
the former head of security
for playboy,
and they have some information
that there were phony
prescriptions, potentially,
that were drawn up
so hefner could get drugs.
But the bottom line was,
what can you prove?
♪ ♪
- hef pretended he wasn't
involved in any hard drug use
at the mansion,
but that was just a lie.
Quaaludes, down the line,
were used for sex.
♪ ♪
everything felt good to touch.
Everything felt soft
and soft-focus, and--
and it was lovely.
Usually,
you just took a half.
Now, if you took two,
you'd pass out.
It was such a seduction,
and the men knew this,
that they could get girls to do
just about anything they wanted
if they gave them a quaalude.
♪ ♪
- I worked for hefner
at the playboy mansion in la
from late 1977 to mid-1989.
♪ ♪
quaaludes were--
we called them
the leg-spreaders, you know?
I mean, and I don't know
that I want to get that crude,
but that is what the whole
point of them was, you know?
They were a necessary evil,
if you will, to the partying.
We would have prescriptions
in some of our names.
There were prescriptions
in sondra's name,
and hef's name,
and my name.
There was a prescription
in mary's name.
We kept a desk calendar
that just would say, you know,
"lisa's q," or "hef's q,"
or sondra's q."
that enabled certainly four
and sometimes
five different prescriptions
for the same medication
to feed the machine.
- To hef's bedroom,
to his personal drawer.
He had a drawer that
none of us had access to.
We gave them directly to hef.
Then, there were--
there was the dexedrine,
the speed that he took
that was not
in everyone else's names.
It was probably only in mine
and mary's and hef's.
Dexedrine was a speed.
It was a pretty popular
diet pill back in the day,
and amphetamine,
and I think that it was fuel.
When hef would take dexedrine,
he always took a little
every day.
He couldn't swallow a pill,
so he chewed it.
He would always, like,
break off a little piece and--
then wrap it into tissue
and stick it in the top pocket
of his pajamas.
Cocaine was a big deal.
I can remember at a couple
of the larger parties,
there was a downstairs powder
room off of the great hall
that, underneath
the ornate toilet paper holder,
you would lift that up,
and there was a pile of cocaine
underneath there.
[laughs]
I remember asking once,
"where is he getting this?"
you know, 'cause
he doesn't leave the property.
Where is this coming from?
[cheers and applause]
- the first time
I did cocaine came
when we did the schlong show
for his birthday,
and I had to sing.
♪ mama doesn't even
have an inkling ♪
♪ that we're working here
at hefner's ♪
♪ in a pair of lacy pants ♪
[laughter]
but I was nervous because
nobody had heard me sing.
So someone said,
"what you need is a bump."
and I said,
"what's a bump?"
and somebody is going,
"she doesn't know."
they go, "some cocaine!"
and I said, "cocaine?"
[laughs]
cocaine?
♪ ♪
and in the beginning,
it was fun.
♪ ♪
there was drugs everywhere.
John dante
was hef's best friend,
and dante's little dog,
louis,
who was a little tiny poodle,
got hooked on cocaine.
And the dog would smell it
from across the room,
and a very famous person walked
in the game house one night.
And that little dog jumped
off the couch and was--
he was like superdog,
flew to that person,
up that person's arm
and was licking the nose.
And she's like,
"oh, he just loves me!"
and we're all going,
"mm-hmm. Yeah, sure."
we knew
why that dog was on her,
and he had to lock that dog up
when people were around
because it was addicted
to the cocaine, and--
people you wouldn't even think
were doing it were doing it.
So who's gonna bring
these drugs to him?
He didn't go anywhere,
and he wasn't gonna go
get them himself.
♪ ♪
- at the time in la,
when I was there,
there were bowls
of quaaludes.
There were huge vials
of cocaine.
And then, when I transferred
to the chicago playboy club,
there were a lot of bunnies
that were still there
that knew adrienne pollack,
and they said,
"adrienne and bobbie arnstein
supplied drugs
for the chicago mansion
for parties
for hefner and his vips."
- the feds suspected
that both bobbie arnstein
and my sister, adrienne,
were involved in
trafficking drugs for playboy.
State government
wanted to see
what they could get
on hefner and playboy.
♪ ♪
- hefner was smart.
Is somebody gonna
come forward? No.
Everybody wanted
to be hef's favorite.
Everybody wanted to be
rising up in the organization.
I think adrienne pollack,
maybe she did a little bit
of involvement
with running the drugs
or being a mule on some level.
That's very possible.
I mean, we'd be naive
not to think that.
[dramatic music]
♪ ♪
- after my sister died,
when my mom and dad and I
were allowed
to get her things
in her apartment,
she had this dark wig.
So we asked her boyfriend
what this was about,
and he said, "this was
one of her disguises."
she would wear this wig
when she was trafficking.
- Addie called me one time,
and she was in florida.
Addie told me there was a drug
cartel member there with her,
and I believe that was
her date for the evening.
I said,
"aren't you afraid?"
she said, "don't worry.
There's a bunch of us here."
- they were
the playboy bunnies.
I think there were
somewhere around, like,
seven, eight girls
that went.
♪ ♪
- I know that she was
on the bunny plane.
I know that she went to
las vegas, hollywood, hawaii,
to montego bay,
jamaica, florida,
but it may not have always
been on the bunny plane.
A playboy bunny friend of hers
had given her,
it was
a leo horoscope picture.
Here it says,
"the leo personality
are the ideal heads
of large enterprises."
so this head character--
this head egyptian character,
pharaoh--
has an a on it
for adrienne.
It shows her as the head,
and then, it shows meth,
heroin, lsd, ludes,
valium, and cocaine.
And I firmly believe that
she was involved quite a bit
with the drug trafficking.
♪ ♪
so in 2004,
I decided to contact
adrienne's boyfriend, jerry.
This is his recollection
of what happened
on the day
of September 5th, 1973,
the day before her death.
She had a meeting
at the playboy mansion.
The meeting involved bobbie
arnstein and two other guys
that were later arrested
with bobbie arnstein
for cocaine possession.
Jerry said that
there was the connection
between
addie's drug trafficking
and playboy and bobbie,
and she wanted
to get out of it.
- If jerry pingatore had said
that there was a connection
between the two,
there could have been
some truth to that,
but we did not talk
to jerry pingatore
because he was lawyered up.
Adrienne was possibly
a low-level mule,
but we were stonewalled
early on.
Hefner was smart.
If there was drug activity,
hefner could have
very easily said,
"I don't want to know about
it. Do what you got to do."
we could not prove
that the mansions
had massive amounts of drugs
or drug activity
that we could
make a case out of.
And then, bobbie arnstein
was indicted,
tried for cocaine possession
and distribution charges.
♪ ♪
- in the course
of the trial,
there was a lot of wiretap
evidence in the case.
They recorded phone calls.
And they were played
for the jury.
- Bobbie did not
take the stand
because if she would have
taken the stand,
they could have asked her
a lot of questions
about hef and playboy
that she would not have
wanted to answer, probably.
In the playboy world,
they always prided themselves
on how private it was.
♪ ♪
- hugh hefner's
social secretary,
32-year-old
bobbie arnstein,
and two men
were found guilty today
of conspiracy
to distribute cocaine.
After the verdict was returned
by the federal court,
sentencing was set
for November 20th,
and arnstein left
the federal courts building
accompanied by her attorney,
tom sullivan.
Sullivan advised her to say
nothing to waiting reporters.
- ...Any statements.
I don't think you ought
to give any statement at all.
- Well, I think it's absurd.
- Do not give any statement.
- My lawyer suggests that
I not give any statements.
It's not my personal opinion.
You're welcome. Sorry.
- She was convicted
of conspiracy
to distribute cocaine.
She was sentenced provisionally
with a 15-year sentence.
Then, within a few weeks,
the government called
bobbie in to speak with them.
I remember being in
a large room crowded with men,
and bobbie and I were there.
And the government told her
that they had information
that there was a contract
out on her life
and that she needed to be
very careful of friend and foe.
♪ ♪
so I don't think
for either of us,
there was any question
about how we were supposed
to interpret
that odd message.
♪ ♪
- the only person that
it made any sense would be
to assume that hugh hefner was
willing to kill bobbie arnstein
to keep the cocaine scandal out
of his life and playboy's life,
and that simply
isn't believable for any of us
who knew the two of them.
- What I'm describing to you
is what was transparently
obvious to all of us,
bobbie included,
her attorneys and ourselves,
as a transparent and incredible
pressure on bobbie...
To establish
and accomplish exactly what
we've been talking about here,
to make her strike out at us.
♪ ♪
- bobbie had made it fairly
clear to all her friends
that she'd do
whatever she needed to do
not to go to prison,
but she wasn't gonna
flip on hef or anybody
in the playboy empire.
♪ ♪
so she took an overdose
of pills,
I think 1:00 or 2:00
in the morning,
and took a taxi
over to the maryland hotel
and got a room by herself,
wrote her note out on
the hotel stationery by hand,
took her pills,
and went to sleep.
♪ ♪
- bobbie arnstein had lived
for several years
in hugh hefner's
luxurious chicago mansion,
but the 34-year-old
executive secretary
checked into a nearby
night-club district hotel
before apparently
taking her own life
with an overdose of drugs.
♪ ♪
- it was right
in the middle of everything,
so everything blows up.
♪ ♪
bobbie arnstein
had been subpoenaed
by the local grand jury
in conjunction
with the adrienne pollack case
just prior to her suicide.
♪ ♪
- so all that evidence
that she may have had
went with her.
She apparently died
of a suicide,
but we don't believe
it was a suicide.
- It was my responsibility
to determine what happened
to roberta arnstein.
So I treated it as a murder.
I had the crime laboratory take
the door off the hotel room,
and I had it sent
to the crime laboratory
to have the tool mark section
check the locks
to make sure
they hadn't been picked.
I even went up on the roof,
directly above the window
of that room,
to make sure there were
no grappling hook marks
on the roof.
I mean, I covered every single
possible contingency.
We had handwriting analysis
done on the note.
It was her handwriting.
There was no violence,
so there was no blood,
no signs of restraint.
You know, she hadn't been
bound or anything like that.
No bruising.
Nothing had been disturbed.
It was a suicide.
[tense music]
roberta arnstein
was charged federally,
tried in a federal courtroom
in chicago,
and sentenced
to 15 years in prison.
Even if she hadn't
committed suicide,
she'd have been ruined by this.
I mean, they were
gonna put her in prison.
They fully intended
to send her away.
- Narcotics agents frequently
use our severe drug laws
in an arbitrary
and capricious manner
to elicit the desired testimony
for a trial.
♪ ♪
faced finally
with a conditional sentence
of 15 years,
the pressure
of a lengthy appeal
and increasing harassment
from government prosecutors
and their agents...
An already
emotionally troubled woman
was pushed beyond endurance,
and she killed herself.
♪ ♪
- the end was very scary.
and you could see
how heartbroken hefner was
when he was a pallbearer.
I think her struggle was like
it is for everybody: Survival.
And she just couldn't cope,
and she chose not to.
- Bobbie was my soul mate.
She was incredibly close.
And I should have been able
to help her, but I wasn't,
so I felt incredibly guilty.
It still makes me cry.
♪ ♪
she never felt totally happy
or satisfied.
There was always a sad side
to her.
She was wielding
the power she wanted,
but she didn't have
all the status she wanted
or all the pay.
- Bobbie and I
talked about
the difficulties women had
in getting ahead.
And she was surrounded
by male executives,
and she was not an executive.
She was an executive secretary.
♪ ♪
in everything
that I saw her do,
she was a support person.
I definitely see her
as probably having difficulty
reaching for a position that
had power in its own right.
♪ ♪
there was an article
in the "chicago reader"
called "the life and death
of bobbie arnstein."
"she wanted a title that would
define her 24-hour-a-day duties
"more accurately
than the words,
"quote, 'executive secretary,'
end quote, did,
"but after more
than a decade
"of living without
breathing space of her boss,
"bobbie arnstein wasn't able
to come right out and tell him.
"she required a monetary pat
on the head,
"a paper reassurance
that he needed her.
She wasn't getting either."
♪ ♪
- bobbie was a feminist.
She wanted to be respected
for her mind
and for her achievements
and for her judgment.
On the other hand,
she put herself into a world
where every woman
was a sex object.
I think it was the conflict at
the center of bobbie's soul.
Bobbie clearly understood
that this world
that she lived and thrived in,
as glamorous as it was,
and it was very glamorous,
it was also based
on exploiting other women.
Must have caused some guilt.
♪ ♪
- when they found out that
roberta arnstein was dead,
the u.S. Attorney knew that
their whole playboy case
had gone right out the window.
It was done.
There was no more playboy case.
♪ ♪
- our investigation
was officially closed
in spring of '75.
Not that long after
the bobbie arnstein death,
but we got in too late.
Key people were lawyered up.
The leads were dried up.
Hefner was idolized
by these people.
They weren't gonna
snitch him off.
And that was the end of it.
♪ ♪
- these are letters
my mom wrote.
She wrote
to all the news stations,
to all the politicians
that she knew.
♪ ♪
and all she was doing
was searching for somebody
to help find
what really happened.
We still never really
got any answers.
Somebody knows something.
Tell us the truth.
♪ ♪
- when I was his girlfriend,
I was afraid to speak up.
I've never told anybody
any of this before.
I was too ashamed,
for a lot of reasons,
but I was a drug mule for hef.
[soft dramatic music]
- hef used cocaine.
He used more than that.
He had a drawer full of drugs.
I discovered it when
he started giving me the key
to that drawer.
[eerie music]
the first time that hef sent me
"as a mule"
to get the drugs,
there were two brothers
that came up to the house.
♪ ♪
one of the brothers
sold cocaine,
so hef sent me
to his house.
He said, "here's the money.
Get the stuff."
♪ ♪
it was so easy for him.
That became the norm.
I picked up the stuff,
and I brought it back to him,
handed it to him.
He locked it up
under lock and key.
Hef used cocaine.
Soon after, we were doing it
on a regular basis together.
♪ ♪
how many times
did I pick up drugs for hef?
I don't know, countless.
Countless times.
- Oh, yeah.
I'd say once a week.
♪ ♪
everybody did their own job.
We all had to do
exactly what he wanted,
and we all did it
like little puppets.
If he gave you a job,
you were--
it was almost an honor.
And here I am running drugs
for him, and that's an honor.
Yeah, okay, it's crazy,
but it made me feel like
I was important to him.
When you think about it,
here's a man
30 years older than me,
and he's sending a young girl
for illegal substances.
♪ ♪
it was nothing to him.
"go get it."
it was like sending me out
for a quart of milk.
If I got caught,
my life would be over.
♪ ♪
and do you think he would
have said, "oh, it's my fault"?
No, it would have been me,
it would have been my problem.
And luckily, I had angels
watching over me,
and I didn't get caught.
♪ ♪
the people that got caught,
they suffered for it.
I do believe
that he knew
bobbie was involved
with the drugs.
I believe that hugh hefner
was the reason
she was involved
in the drugs.
Would bobbie
have gotten involved
if not for that whisper
in the ear from him?
♪ ♪
bobbie was going to be forced
to testify against him.
I know that because
he told me that.
He said,
"she died because
she didn't want to have
to testify against me."
so with bobbie, knowing that
he was that close to her,
it wouldn't have taken much
for him to get her to do
the drug running for him.
♪ ♪
- if sondra theodore
had come forth
with that type of testimony
in 1973 or 1974, 1975,
it would have changed the whole
direction of the investigation.
She would have been sworn in
to either the grand jury
or given a sworn statement,
and that would have left
open the possibility
of potential indictment
of hefner, even.
And people would have been
looking at it a lot harder
because then there would
have been a viable witness
to that activity, which we
didn't have at that time.
- I have been very successful
in arranging a system
whereby I am able to do
what I want to do
when I want to do it
without outside interference.
♪ ♪
I am very, very selfish.
I am very self-oriented,
and I think that
everybody should be.
Intelligent self-interest
is for the good of everyone.
The person who spends
all of their time
thinking about others
accomplishes almost nothing.
- It was wrong
to take a young girl, so young,
and have her do
that kind of thing for him.
To put a young girl in that
position was so dangerous.
I--I didn't allow myself
to know
that that was abusive
because I was told
it was in love,
in the name of love.
♪ ♪
and if hef was alive,
he would be in jail.
And wherever he is,
and I don't think
it's a good place,
I know he knows
that I told the truth,
and he's not happy about it.
[sniffles]
he's finally been called out.
Finally.
♪ ♪
- let's celebrate
our sexuality.
- It is fun
when you first have sex, right?
But there's a line
that's crossed.
I felt so violated.
- She said, "you cannot believe
what went on in that bedroom."
- it was cult-like.
The women had been groomed.
- A kid who has a sweet tooth
who is thrust
into a candy store
starts, after a little while,
thinking about other things
besides candy.
- Nipple rings.
Sex trapezes.
Double dildos.
- Linda lovelace was drunk,
and drugged,
and out of nowhere,
german shepherd shows up.
- This is the dark underbelly
of playboy.
- I watched a slow descent
into... Madness.
- You wanna talk
about depravity?
This is despicable.